Add remesh and curvature news (#33)
CGAL/cgal-web: _posts/2023-11-20-curvature_and_remeshing.md

</div>
<br>
<br>

<h3>Isotropic Remeshing with Sizing Field</h3>

Almost since the introduction of the Polygon Mesh Processing package in CGAL, the function <code>isotropic_remeshing()</code>
provides a way to isotropically and uniformly remesh a triangle mesh, given a target edge length. This implementation
includes the preservation of (sharp) feature lines, as well as the possibility to only remesh a portion of the mesh.
Extending this work, a concept of sizing field as been incorporated in the function, and a first model has been
implemented following the article <a href="https://diglib.eg.org/handle/10.2312/conf.EG2013.short.029-032"><i>Dunyach, Marion, et al. "Adaptive remeshing for real-time mesh deformation." Eurographics 2013. The Eurographics Association, 2013.</i></a>
and using the Interpolated Corrected Curvature Measures function for curvature computation.

<br>
<div style="text-align:center;">
  <a href="../../../../images/david_comparison.png"><img src="../../../../images/david_comparison.png" style="max-width:95%"/></a><br>

>   <br><small>Input Mesh (left), curvature based isotropic remeshing(right).</small>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <br><small>Input Mesh (left), curvature based isotropic remeshing (right).</small>
```

</div>

<br>
<br>
<div style="text-align:center;">
  <a href="../../../../images/thorvaldsen_comparison.png"><img src="../../../../images/thorvaldsen_comparison.png" style="max-width:95%"/></a><br>

>   <br><small>Input Mesh (left), curvature based isotropic remeshing(right).</small>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <br><small>Input Mesh (left), curvature based isotropic remeshing (right).</small>
```

---
layout: post
title: "New in CGAL: Interpolated Corrected Curvature Measures and Isotropic Remeshing with Sizing Field"
description: ""
category:
tags: [""]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<p>

> The CGAL project has been participating to 12 editions of the <a hef="https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/">Google Summer of Code</a>

Reviewer 2: this link does not work on [this generated page](https://cgal.github.io/cgal-web/2023/11/20/curvature_and_remeshing/)

> The CGAL project has been participating to 12 editions of the <a hef="https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/">Google Summer of Code</a>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The CGAL project has been participating in 12 editions of the <a hef="https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/">Google Summer of Code</a>
```

internship program. It is a great opportunity to welcome new members to our community, both contributors and mentors.

> Today, we highlight the inclusion into the library of a 2022 contribution from <a href="https://github.com/hoskillua">Hossam Mohamed Seed</a>

Reviewer 4: Would it be okay to link to my LinkedIn instead of GitHub?
`<a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/hossam-saeed-1abab91b3/">Hossam Mohamed Seed</a>`

> Today, we highlight the inclusion into the library of a 2022 contribution from <a href="https://github.com/hoskillua">Hossam Mohamed Seed</a>

Author: ```suggestion
Today, we highlight the inclusion into the library of a 2022 contribution from <a href="[https://github.com/hoskillua">Hossam Mohamed Seed](https://www.linkedin.com/in/hossam-saeed-1abab91b3/)</a>
```

> Today, we highlight the inclusion into the library of a 2022 contribution from <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/hossam-saeed-1abab91b3/">Hossam Mohamed Seed</a>
> mentored by <a href="https://perso.liris.cnrs.fr/david.coeurjolly/">David Coeurjolly</a>,
> <a href="https://jacquesolivierlachaud.github.io/">Jacques-Olivier Lachaud</a> and <a href="https://geometryfactory.com/who-we-are/">Sébastien Loriot</a> on the one hand,
> and of a 2023 contribution from <a href="https://3d.bk.tudelft.nl/ipaden/">Ivan Pađen</a> mentored by
> <a href="https://geometryfactory.com/who-we-are/">Jane Tournois</a> and <a href="https://geometryfactory.com/who-we-are/">Sébastien Loriot</a> on the other hand.
> The reason why we present them both together is because one is using the other one.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This post introduces two contributions that have been incorporated into the CGAL library.

First, <em>Interpolated Corrected Curvature Measures</em> from GSoC'22, by <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/hossam-saeed-1abab91b3/">Hossam Mohamed Seed</a>
mentored by <a href="https://perso.liris.cnrs.fr/david.coeurjolly/">David Coeurjolly</a>,
<a href="https://jacquesolivierlachaud.github.io/">Jacques-Olivier Lachaud</a>, and <a href="https://geometryfactory.com/who-we-are/">Sébastien Loriot</a>.

Second,  <em>Isotropic Remeshing with Sizing Field</h3></em> from GSoC'23  by <a href="https://3d.bk.tudelft.nl/ipaden/">Ivan Pađen</a> mentored by
<a href="https://geometryfactory.com/who-we-are/">Jane Tournois</a> and <a href="https://geometryfactory.com/who-we-are/">Sébastien Loriot</a>.

We present them together, as the second one relies on the first.

```

<br>
<h3>Interpolated Corrected Curvature Measures</h3>
Based on the article <a href="https://doi.org/10.1111/cgf.14067"><i>Lachaud, J.-O., Romon, P., Thibert, B. and Coeurjolly, D. (2020), Interpolated corrected curvature measures for polygonal surfaces. Computer Graphics Forum, 39: 41-54</i></a>,

> the Polygon Mesh Processing package of CGAL now contains the function <code>interpolated_corrected_curvatures()</code>. This function

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the <em>Polygon Mesh Processing</em> package of CGAL now contains the function <code>interpolated_corrected_curvatures()</code>. This function
```

> is able to compute the Gaussian curvature, the mean curvature, and the principal curvature and directions at every vertex (or a single one)

Reviewer 2: I don't like "is able to" talking about a function.
Maybe "enables the user to"?

> is able to compute the Gaussian curvature, the mean curvature, and the principal curvature and directions at every vertex (or a single one)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is able to compute the Gaussian curvature, the mean curvature, and the principal curvatures and directions at every vertex (or a single one)
```

Reviewer 3: or just "computes"

> is able to compute the Gaussian curvature, the mean curvature, and the principal curvature and directions at every vertex (or a single one)

Author: ```suggestion
can compute the Gaussian curvature, the mean curvature, and the principal curvature and directions at every vertex (or a single one)
```

of a surface mesh. An additional parameter, the ball radius, is provided so that the curvature estimation is summed over the neigborhood within
a ball centered at each vertex (rather than using its 1-ring neighborhood) to accomodate for possible noise in the positions of vertices of

> the surface mesh.   Additionally,  if the polygonal mesh has a user-prescribed normal vector field, as opposed to only relying solely on the geometric information

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
the surface mesh.   Additionally,  if the polygonal mesh has a user-prescribed normal vector field, as opposed to only relying on the geometric information
```
only and solely seem redudant.

(e.g., post-processed normal vectors, normal vectors from normal maps), the corrected curvature measures can adapt accordingly.

> <br>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<br>
<br>
```

Author: It's on purpose (requested by Mael)

<div style="text-align:center;">
  <a href="../../../../images/bimba_curvature.png"><img src="../../../../images/bimba_curvature.png" style="max-width:95%"/></a><br>

>   <br><small> Mean curvature, Gaussian curvature, minimal principal curvature direction and maximal principal curvature direction on a mesh (ball radius set to 0.04).</small>

Reviewer 2: I would remove the ball radius from this caption because we don't know the scale anyway

>   <br><small> Mean curvature, Gaussian curvature, minimal principal curvature direction and maximal principal curvature direction on a mesh (ball radius set to 0.04).</small>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <br><small> Mean curvature, Gaussian curvature, Minimal principal curvature directions and Maximal principal curvature directions on a mesh.</small>
```

>   <br><small> Mean curvature, Gaussian curvature, minimal principal curvature direction and maximal principal curvature direction on a mesh (ball radius set to 0.04).</small>

Author: ```suggestion
  <br><small> Mean curvature, Gaussian curvature, minimal principal curvature direction and maximal principal curvature direction on a mesh.</small>
```

</div>
<br>
<br>

<h3>Isotropic Remeshing with Sizing Field</h3>

> Almost since the introduction of the Polygon Mesh Processing package in CGAL, the function <code>isotropic_remeshing()</code>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Almost since the introduction of the <em>Polygon Mesh Processing</em> package in CGAL, the function <code>isotropic_remeshing()</code>
```

> provides a way to isotropically and uniformly remesh a triangle mesh, given a target edge length. This implementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
has provided a way to isotropically and uniformly remesh a triangle mesh, given a target edge length. This implementation
```

includes the preservation of (sharp) feature lines, as well as the possibility to only remesh a portion of the mesh.

> Extending this work, a concept of sizing field as been incorporated in the function, and a first model has been

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Extending this work, a concept of sizing field has been incorporated to the function, and a first model has been
```

implemented following the article <a href="https://diglib.eg.org/handle/10.2312/conf.EG2013.short.029-032"><i>Dunyach, Marion, et al. "Adaptive remeshing for real-time mesh deformation." Eurographics 2013. The Eurographics Association, 2013.</i></a>

> and using the Interpolated Corrected Curvature Measures function for curvature computation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and using the <em>Interpolated Corrected Curvature Measures</em> function for curvature computation.
```

<br>
<div style="text-align:center;">
  <a href="../../../../images/david_comparison.png"><img src="../../../../images/david_comparison.png" style="max-width:95%"/></a><br>

>   <br><small>Input Mesh (left), curvature based isotropic remeshing (right).</small>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <br><small>Input Mesh (left), Curvature based isotropic remeshing (right).</small>
```

Reviewer 3: and mesh should be lowercase

</div>

<br>
<br>
<div style="text-align:center;">
  <a href="../../../../images/thorvaldsen_comparison.png"><img src="../../../../images/thorvaldsen_comparison.png" style="max-width:95%"/></a><br>

>   <br><small>Input Mesh (left), curvature based isotropic remeshing (right).</small>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  <br><small>Input Mesh (left), Curvature based isotropic remeshing (right).</small>
```

</div>
<br>

<h3>Status</h3>

> <p>All these additions are already integrated in CGAL's master branch on the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<p>All these additions already are integrated in CGAL's master branch on the
```

---
layout: post
title: "New in CGAL: Interpolated Corrected Curvature Measures and Isotropic Remeshing with Sizing Field"
description: ""
category:
tags: [""]
---
{% include JB/setup %}

<p>

> The CGAL project has been participating in 12 editions of the <a hef="https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/">Google Summer of Code</a>

Author: ```suggestion
The CGAL project has been participating in 12 editions of the <a href="https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/">Google Summer of Code</a>
```
